---
title: Trivial Post for Testing Text Features
date: 2022-07-18 20:55:22 +/-TTTT
categories: [Development]
tags: [economics]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

This is a only a test!



No comments, but I'll give it a shot. Your post seems genuine and worth some commentary, particularly because you are young. There's a lot of misinformation about Bitcoin, and about what a fiat currency like the dollar is, as well. there two are very, very different beasts, so don't try to equate them in any way. Lets stick with Bitcoin. Bitcoin has a lot of problems that basically make it impossible for it to succeed as a currency. I'll go through them, off the top of my head: (1) First, people seem to believe that Bitcoin is somehow unique, and thus (for example) capped on the number of coins. The problem is that other than a few innovative concepts integrated into things like Etherium, the only real difference between Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies is that it has a different root key. There are currently 916 different crypto currencies (a word I use very loosely), and 1556 unique coin types if we include tokens. Only one of those is Bitcoin. They are all extremely volatile and they all are heavily correlated with each other. In otherwords, they tend to trade as a group, with little spurts of differentiation. This is a problem for Bitcoin because what essentially happens is that whenever a spurt of volatility occurs, its market cap is bled off into the other coins and never returns. 


The overall market cap might continue to go up over time (though that is a bit suspect now, too), but the plain fact of the matter is that there is no cap on the number of crypto currencies (term used very loosely) that can be issued. This means that the bleed-out effect will continue basically forever. It works just like trading cards. Only a small handful of these coins are actual forks from Bitcoin itself, and once forked they essentially trade in markets that many people don't have access to but which nevertheless bleeds volume and value away from the original Bitcoin (or any other coin). https://coinmarketcap.com/coins/views/all/ (2) There are only a handful of algorithmic differences across all crypto currencies. The most distinguishing is Ethereum. But most of the others either don't tweak the algorithms at all or make only very minor changes, such as increasing the block size. Their capital value is effectively nothing more than a popularity game differentiated ONLY by the name of the currency and really not much else. This destroys any possible store of value that Bitcoin (or any other crypto currency) might otherwise be able to represent. When popularity shifts, that's the end of it for the coin on the losing side. Forks don't help you here... any Bitcoin you've purchased post-fork is effectively out of the picture verses the previously forked currencies. And most of these currencies are unique and not forked. Anyone can create a new currency and hype it up. 


Some do better than others. And there are currencies such as Tether (and in fact, many currencies in the top-100) where their value is dictated by literally a small handful of people and opaque financials which the crypto community has for reasons completely unknown to me decided to trust. Almost a dozen crypto exchanges have gone bust or just disappeared. Even the US based exchange coinbase has been caught self-dealing behind its customer's backs. You can't have a currency whos value is based only on how popular it is. And note, fiat currencies are not (usually) popularity games no matter how many people try to compare them to bitcoin. (3) There is no regulation, and the regulatory reach of sovereign governments is severely limited. By design, in fact. This is actually a huge problem, because it means that the trading of these coins can be seriously manipulated by big movers, miners, and criminals. Criminal syndicates in particular use Bitcoin, Monero, and other crypto-currencies in ways that are almost untraceable. When one has fraud and manipulation in a system which goes unanswered, it simply builds forever until it takes down the whole system. That is the nature of fraud. So the very mechanisms that people believe are good for the likes of Bitcoin (not being under government control, for example), are actually bad because a lack of regulation will ultimately destroy it. You might not notice this as the value goes up, but the very volatility also bleeds non-crypto (real cash) out of the system. So once the new buyers dry up the whole thing will bleed away to probably something close to $0. There is always nostalgia, but ... trading cards are also driven by nostalgia and those are definitely not considered to be currencies. 


The lack of regulation also makes it impossible to match supply and demand. Economic growth (or contraction) will never match available coinage in any single crypto currency. That's a huge problem because it can destroy an economy that relies on it. Not just cause a depression or recession, but completely destroy the economy. (4) Most mining assets are based in China, and much of those assets are based on under-the-table power agreements and outright power theft to run the mining rigs. The amount of pollution generated just to mine these cryptos is crazy. (5) The value fluctuates based on geo-politics. Every time one country or another enters into strife, or performs some action related to crypto-currencies, the price gyrates wildly. This ensures that they will be unstable forever. Bitcoin (and other cryptos) cannot be a 'store of value' when their value fluctuates wildly based on the actions of a single country. Even ignoring vulnerabilities such as 51% attacks on the blockchain, this is a big big problem. (6) Hoarding is rampant. People do the craziest things, literally mortgage their financial futures on a blind trust of a computer algorithm. Even more so to blindly trust that a coin whos only real distinguishing factor is its root keys, name, and popularity verses other coins determines whether it lives or dies. Social media stories tend to focus only on the winners, like the winner of lottery. It hardly ever focuses on the losers. Most people are losers. There are only a handful of wallets that even have any significant number of full bitcoins, which means that the true whales exploiting the system pretty much have free reign and the hoarders are going to wind up being the bag holders. (7) Transaction costs for Bitcoin are highly variable. They can go from $0.10 to $30, literally, in a heartbeat. The cost for dollar-based transactions is close to $0. My bank refunds my ATM withdrawal charges. I carry more then the minimum balance in my checking account so I don't get charged for that either. Billpay is free. I use a credit card but pay it off completely every single month... the float alone is worth hundreds of dollars a year to me! Literally! I get cash back, even. The arguments I hear all the time from people about dollar transactions costing them lots of money are absurd... its because those people carry credit card debt, and can't save even a penny to save their lives, no savings over decades. It's completely absurd... those same people are screwing themselves even worse if they think they can dodge their own mismanagement simply by switching to a crypto currency. (8) Bitcoin is not the dollar, the yen, the euro, or any other major currencies, and Venezuela is also not the dollar, the yen, the euro, or any other major currencies. Currencies do move, but really very slowly. Simple inflation, even when it adds up over a long period of time, does not destroy a fiat currency.


 The volatility in the dollar is 1/100000 the volatility of Bitcoin. Fiat currencies are ultimately backed by the economies of the nations that issue them, and rise and fall with those economies and other factors. Most importantly, though, fiat currencies are heavily regulated. This is extremely important for stability. -- For the dollar, even the inflation in the 80's, while bad, didn't even remotely approach the volatility we see in Bitcoin on a daily basis. And, in fact, that inflation served a very important purpose that confuses layman to this day. Debt and leverage got too high. Inflation essentially saved the middle class by devaluing their debt. Today we have a very different situation. The middle class is fast disappearing and many people carry credit card balances that are impossible to pay off precisely because wages are not rising AND because inflation is low. Prices for some goods have gone up, and down for others. And, unfortunately, for some of the things that matter the most such as education and health care, prices have gone up very steeply over a long period of time (many years, and not because of Obamacare as many people would like to think). Governments can certainly mismanage fiat currencies. It could be argued that our (the US's) monetary policy is a disaster. But even with that the volatility in the dollar is pretty damn low. Bitcoin is far, far worse, because an entirely unregulated currency will literally destroy any economy that relies on it just from the unaddressed fraud and criminality alone. So, no ... Bitcoin is not a currency and will never replace the dollar. Nor will any other crypto-currency (term used very loosely). It just aint one. Sorry. -Matt

 end test